- [Instructor] Hi and welcome
back to the programme.
In this video, we're going to look
at more complex decorators.
The more complex decorator
is a decorator that can
accept arguments itself.
For example, something like
decorator_with_arguments(56).
Something like that.
So here, the decorator is now getting
a set of arguments as well.
And then my_function_too.
I'm gonna comment this one.
So now we need to create a decorator
that will accept arguments,
so this is naturally gonna
be a bit of a longer one.
So I'm gonna create the
decorator with argument
and this decorator is gonna
take in a single argument.
In this case, the number.
This number is gonna be the 56.
What goes inside here is my_decorator,
just as we had up here,
and this decorator takes in the function.
Then we use functools to
wrap around the function
with this other function.
And then we are gonna
print, "In the decorator."
And then we're gonna run the function.
And then we're gonna essentially print,
"After the decorator."
Then we're gonna return the
function that runs function.
And finally, we also have
to return my_decorator.
So we've gone a level deeper
with this decorator with argument
and that is very confusing
because now we've got three levels
of functions nested one inside another.
And this is something
that we can do in Python.
We can define functions
inside the functions,
as we are doing,
but it gets confusing very quickly.
But don't worry, it doesn't
go deeper than three levels
when we are creating decorators.
So let's run it and see what happens.
And I made a typo.
This should be wraps, my apologies.
The error said, "Module
functools has no attribute wrap,"
and it doesn't, it is wraps.
My bad.
So let's save that and run it again.
And now we get the function
just as we did above.
So the function prints hello
and we're also seeing, "In the decorator,"
and "After the decorator,"
so we're running this function here.
We have access to the number,
so potentially, we could do something
like if number is 56,
we can print, "Not running the function."
And if not, we can run the function.
So if the number is 56,
we're gonna print, "Not
running the function,"
and if the number isn't 56, if
the number is something else,
we are gonna run the function.
In this case, we're passing in 56,
so we should see nothing
or, "Not running the
function," printed out.
And indeed we do.
So that's really, really useful
even though it may not seem like it.
For example, in a
decorator with arguments,
we can pass something like
the user's permissions.
If we're creating a website
that has an admin page,
we can pass in the user's permissions
and then if the user doesn't match
the appropriate permissions,
we don't show them the
admin page, for example.
In the decorator with arguments,
we can also do other things.
For example, inserting
elements to a database.
We can only insert some elements
if they match some certain
criteria, and things like that.
So there's a lot of things
that these decorators can be useful for
but it's also easy to
misuse them, overuse them.
I, myself, do not use
decorators very often
but there are some scenarios,
they're just so useful for
very concisely doing things.
For example, in the case
where we have an admin page
and we only wanna show some
people some admin pages,
we just put this in front of the method
that shows the admin page
and that can potentially
deal with determining
whether the user's an admin or not.
If you don't do that,
then you'll have a bunch
of code in your method
to deal with whether the
user's an admin or not.
And if you have many admin pages,
you could potentially end up
with a lot of duplicated code
which you get rid of
if you use a decorator.
And also something to remember
is that sometimes your function
may take in some parameters.
And if it does, then you have
to be able to deal with them.
So your decorator should always,
and this function that runs func,
you should also have args and kwargs
and you should always pass args
and kwargs to the function.
That way, when we call the function
using something like that,
we will also pass in the
parameters to this function
and they will be passed
to this function there.
So then when we run it,
well, we get, "Not running the function,"
but we can print x plus y there.
We will get 124 there
because they're being passed
to the function that runs func
and then from that into the func itself
which is my_function_too.
So just to recap, my_function_too
is this func here.
The 57 is the number up here.
So we first create a
method that is a decorator
that takes in a parameter,
that's the number.
It can take many parameters as well.
Then we create the decorator.
This one contains the wraps function
which is gonna tell us and tell Python
that this function here
is going to be replacing
this function down here.
That function accepts
any number of arguments
and keyword argument because sometimes
we will be calling that
function with those arguments
and then it should also
execute the function
with those arguments.
Finally, we can do things before
or after the function, if we want,
or we can potentially entirely omit
running the function and not running.
At the end, we have to
return this function
and then we also have
to return the decorator
so that that get applied.
I would recommend keeping
a hold of this template,
in fact, these two templates,
for decorators with and without parameters
because as soon as you need a decorator,
you will forget how to write them.
So it's good to have a
hold of these templates
because the first few times, you'll forget
and then as you write some
more, you will easily remember.
That's everything for this video,
and indeed, for the Python refresher.
So we have covered everything
that I wanted to cover
and if you weren't before, I
hope that you are now ready
to go into REST API development.
So I'm very excited to
get into that with you
and if you ever have any
questions, let me know
and I'm always available
to guide you personally
and to answer questions.
Without further ado, I'll
see you in the next section.